Add federation guide (#1959)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-go/5.15/guides/use-federation.md

---
title: "Multi-cluster visibility with federation"
linkTitle: "Reaching multi-cluster visibility"
description: "In this guide, you'll learn how to register external clusters using the federation API and access resources across multiple clusters."
weight: 36
version: "5.15"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: False
menu: 
  sensu-go-5.15:
    parent: guides
---

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Multi-cluster visibility with federation"
linkTitle: "Reaching Multi-cluster Visibility"
description: "In this guide, you'll learn how to register external clusters using the federation API and access resources across multiple clusters in the web UI."
weight: 400
version: "5.15"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: False
menu: 
  sensu-go-5.15:
    parent: guides
---

- [What you can do with federation](#what-you-can-do-with-federation)

> - [Step 1 Register clusters](#step-1-register-clusters)

Reviewer: This link isn't working for me. Looks like its step 3 now?

  - [Register a single cluster](#register-a-single-cluster)
  - [Register additional clusters](#register-additional-clusters)
- [Step 2 Set up communication between clusters](#step-2-set-up-communication-between-clusters)

> - [Step 3 Create etcd replicators](#step-3-create-etcd-replicators)

Reviewer: These links are broken as well. I suppose there is some reordering that needs to be done in this overview.

## Step 1 Configure clusters with shared JWT keys

JWTs support asymmetric encryption using RSA or Elliptic Curve keys. Use the `openssl` command line tool to generate a P-256 Elliptic Curve key:

```shell
openssl ecparam -genkey -name prime256v1 -noout -out ec_private.pem
```

and then generate a public key from the private key:

```shell
openssl ec -in ec_private.pem -pubout -out ec_public.pem
```

After generating these keys, copy them to your Sensu clusters. For this guide, we'll put JWT keys into `/etc/sensu/certs` and use the [`jwt-private-key-file` and `jwt-public-key-file` attributes][4] in `/etc/sensu/backend.yml` to specify the paths to these JWT keys:

{{< highlight yml >}}
jwt-private-key-file: /etc/sensu/certs/ec_private.pem
jwt-public-key-file: /etc/sensu/certs/ec_public.pem
{{< /highlight >}}

After updating the backend configuration, restart `sensu-backend` for those settings to take effect.

## Step 2 Create etcd replicators

> You can use etcd Replicators to synchronize [RBAC policy resources][10] between clusters. This allows you to centrally define permissions that replicate to all federated clusters, ensuring consistent access for Sensu users.

Reviewer: 404 on RBAC policy resources.

Etcd replicators use the [etcd make-mirror utility][12] for one-way key replication. Our [etcd-replicators reference][2] includes [examples][9] for `Role`, `RoleBinding`, `ClusterRole`, and `ClusterRoleBinding` resources.

## Step 3 Register clusters

Each registered cluster must have a name and a list of cluster member URLs corresponding to the backend REST API.

### Register a single cluster

> You do not need to register the cluster that you are currently operating from (for example, self or local-cluster) unless you want to configure the cluster name.

Reviewer: Let's remove `self` here to avoid confusion.
```suggestion
You do not need to register the cluster that you are currently operating from (for example, local-cluster is automatically initialized) unless you want to configure the cluster name.
```

From `local-cluster`, run `sensuctl create` on the yaml or JSON below to register cluster `us-west-2a`:

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
api_version: federation/v1
type: Cluster
metadata:
  name: us-west-2a
spec:
  api_urls:
  - http://10.0.0.1:8080
  - http://10.0.0.2:8080
  - http://10.0.0.3:8080
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "api_version": "federation/v1",
  "type": "Cluster",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "us-west-2a"
  },
  "spec": {
    "api-urls": [
      "http://10.0.0.1:8080",
      "http://10.0.0.2:8080",
      "http://10.0.0.3:8080"
    ]
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

### Register additional clusters

> From `local-cluster`, run `sensuctl create` on the yaml or JSON below to register an additional cluster (with the same API URLs as `local-cluster`) and define the name as `us-west-2b`:

Reviewer: Maybe we should note that this will not overwrite `local-cluster`, rather it will only create a duplicate with a custom name.

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
api_version: federation/v1
type: Cluster
metadata:
  name: us-west-2b
spec:
  api_urls:
  - http://10.0.0.4:8080
  - http://10.0.0.5:8080
  - http://10.0.0.6:8080
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "api_version": "federation/v1",
  "type": "Cluster",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "us-west-2b"
  },
  "spec": {
    "api-urls": [
      "http://10.0.0.4:8080",
      "http://10.0.0.5:8080",
      "http://10.0.0.6:8080"
    ]
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

## Step 4 Get a unified view of all your clusters in the web UI

After you create clusters using the federation API, you can log in to the Sensu web UI to view them. In the web UI, you can see the status of every federated cluster, as well as metrics like the number of events and entities for each. 

> **NEEDED**: Add screenshots of the context switcher in the web UI showing how the federated views work.

Reviewer: @jamesdphillips posted this in #web-ui, this could be useful to use as a screenshot. I think he also has some gifs available.
<img width="1085" alt="screen_shot_2019-11-22_at_4 40 58_pm" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10634078/69981445-2d67ce00-14e7-11ea-931a-573a08475e97.png">

Reviewer 2: I've learned this status display is a "coming soon" feature, so we'll include it when it ships.

---
title: "Multi-cluster visibility with federation"
linkTitle: "Reaching Multi-cluster Visibility"

> description: "In this guide, you'll learn how federate Sensu clusters and use a single web UI to access resources across those disparate clusters."

Author: I'm not sure I understand what "a single web UI" means here. It sounds like it might mean you can manage resources across all federated clusters from only one screen when you log into the web UI, but is that correct?

Also, can you only access the resources? Or can you manage the resources too?

Author: Based on the description in the early paragraphs of the doc, I suggest changing the description to:

"Learn how to federate Sensu clusters. With Sensu's federation feature, you can access resources across multiple clusters via the web UI and mirror your changes in one cluster to follower clusters."

Reviewer 2: > I'm not sure I understand what "a single web UI" means here. It sounds like it might mean you can manage resources across all federated clusters from only one screen when you log into the web UI, but is that correct?

Yes I think your read is correct. Upon completing this guide, I can log into the web UI running on the `gateway` cluster and interact with resources in the `gateway`, `alpha` and `beta` clusters. Without federation, I'd need to have a distinct web UI browser session for each cluster I want to interact with.

> Also, can you only access the resources? Or can you manage the resources too?

The interactions that are allowed are a function of my RBAC permissions. Assuming one has followed this guide, an authenticated session with `cluster-admin` role can both view and manage resources, whereas the `federation-viewer` user will be allowed only to view resources.

Author: Got it. I will make a suggestion.

Reviewer 2: I think I may have addressed this now. Please lmk what you think.

Author: Sounds great! 👍

weight: 400
version: "5.15"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: False
menu: 
  sensu-go-5.15:
    parent: guides
---

> - [What you can do with federation](#what-you-can-do-with-federation)

Author: ```suggestion
- [What you can do with federation](#what-you-can-do-with-federation)
- [Configure federation](#configure-federation)
```

> - [Step 1 Configure backends for TLS](#step-1-configure-backends-for-tls)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Step 1 Configure backends for TLS](#step-1-configure-backends-for-tls)
```

> - [Step 2 Configure shared token signing keys](#step-2-configure-shared-token-signing-keys)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Step 2 Configure shared token signing keys](#step-2-configure-shared-token-signing-keys)
```

> - [Step 3 Add a cluster role binding and user](#step-3-add-a-cluster-role-binding-and-user)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Step 3 Add a cluster role binding and user](#step-3-add-a-cluster-role-binding-and-user)
```

> - [Step 4 Create etcd replicators](#step-4-create-etcd-replicators)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Step 4 Create etcd replicators](#step-4-create-etcd-replicators)
```

> - [Step 5 Register clusters](#step-5-register-clusters)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Step 5 Register clusters](#step-5-register-clusters)
```

>   - [Register a single cluster](#register-a-single-cluster)

Author: ```suggestion
    - [Register a single cluster](#register-a-single-cluster)
```

>   - [Register additional clusters](#register-additional-clusters)

Author: ```suggestion
    - [Register additional clusters](#register-additional-clusters)
```

> - [Step 6 Get a unified view of all your clusters in the web UI](#step-6-get-a-unified-view-of-all-your-clusters-in-the-web-ui)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Step 6 Get a unified view of all your clusters in the web UI](#step-6-get-a-unified-view-of-all-your-clusters-in-the-web-ui)
```

- [Next steps](#next-steps)

> **COMMERCIAL FEATURE**: Access federation in the packaged Sensu Go distribution. For more information, see the [getting started guide][8].

Author: ```suggestion
**COMMERCIAL FEATURE**: Access federation in the packaged Sensu Go distribution. For more information, see [Get started with commercial features][8].
```

Sensu's [federation API][1] allows you to register external clusters, access resources across multiple clusters via the web UI, and mirror your changes in one cluster to follower clusters.

> Federation is not enabled by default. You must create a cluster resource for the federation cluster and [register it](#register-a-single-cluster).

Author: ```suggestion
Federation is not enabled by default. You must create a cluster resource for the federation cluster and [register it][14].
```

Create, update, and delete clusters using sensuctl [create][5], [edit][6], and [delete][7] commands. Only cluster administrators can register a new cluster, but every user can [query the list of clusters][11].

## What you can do with federation

> Federation affords visibility into the health of your infrastructure and services across multiple distinct Sensu instances within a single web UI. This is useful when you want to provide a single entry point for Sensu users who need to manage monitoring across multiple distinct physical data centers, cloud regions or providers.

Author: ```suggestion
Federation affords visibility into the health of your infrastructure and services across multiple distinct Sensu instances within a single web UI. This is useful when you want to provide a single entry point for Sensu users who need to manage monitoring across multiple distinct physical data centers, cloud regions, or providers.
```

> ## Configuring federation

Author: ```suggestion
## Configure federation
```

> Complete federation of multiple Sensu instances is accomplished through a combination of features:

Author: ```suggestion
Complete federation of multiple Sensu instances relies on a combination of features:
```

> | Feature                             | Provides |

Author: ```suggestion
| Feature                             | Purpose in federation |
```

|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | JSON Web Token authentication       | Cross-cluster token authentication using asymmetric key encryption |

Author: ```suggestion
| JSON Web Token (JWT) authentication       | Cross-cluster token authentication using asymmetric key encryption |
```

> | Etcd Replicators                    | Replication of RBAC policy across clusters and/or namespaces       |

Author: ```suggestion
| etcd replicators                    | Replicate RBAC policy across clusters and namespaces       |
```

| Federation Gateway and APIs         | Configure federation access for cross-cluster visibility in web UI |

> The following steps are required to configure these features for unified visibility in a single web UI. For our examples, we'll assume there are three named Sensu clusters we wish to federate:

Author: ```suggestion
The following steps are required to configure these features for unified visibility in a single web UI. Our examples assume that we wish to federate three named Sensu clusters:
```

* `gateway`
* `alpha`
* `beta`

> The `gateway` cluster will be the entry-point for operators to manage Sensu resources in the `alpha` and `beta` clusters.

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, the `gateway` cluster will be the entry point for operators to manage Sensu resources in the `alpha` and `beta` clusters.
```

### Step 1 Configure backends for TLS

> As federation depends on communication between multiple disparate clusters, working TLS is a prerequisite for successful configuration. This guide assumes that you have provided each backend member with TLS credentials (key and certificate), as well as the CA certificate chain required for one Sensu backend to validate the certificates presented by other backends. If you don't have existing infrastructure for issuing certificates, see our Securing Sensu guide for [our recommended self-signed certificate issuance process][13].

Author: ```suggestion
Because federation depends on communication with multiple disparate clusters, working TLS is required for successful configuration. This guide assumes that you have provided each backend member with TLS credentials (key and certificate), as well as the CA certificate chain required for one Sensu backend to validate the certificates presented by other backends. If you don't have existing infrastructure for issuing certificates, see [Securing Sensu][13] for our recommended self-signed certificate issuance process.
```

> This prerequisite extends to the configuration of the following Sensu backend etcd parameters:

Author: ```suggestion
This prerequisite extends to configuring the following Sensu backend etcd parameters:
```

| Backend property             | Note |
|------------------------------|------|

> | `etcd-trusted-ca-file`       | Self explanatory. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `etcd-trusted-ca-file`       | None |
```

Author: Reason for these suggestions: self-explanatory seems subjective

> | `etcd-cert-file`             | Self explanatory. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `etcd-cert-file`             | None |
```

> | `etcd-key-file`              | Self explanatory. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `etcd-key-file`              | None |
```

> | `etcd-client-cert-auth`      | Strongly recommended to use `true` setting |

Author: ```suggestion
| `etcd-client-cert-auth`      | We recommend setting to `true` |
```

> | `etcd-advertise-client-urls` | list of https URLs to to advertise for Etcd Replicators, accessible by other backends in the federation e.g. `https://sensu.beta.example.com:2378` |

Author: ```suggestion
| `etcd-advertise-client-urls` | List of https URLs to advertise for etcd replicators, accessible by other backends in the federation (e.g. `https://sensu.beta.example.com:2378`) |
```

> | `etcd-listen-client-urls`    | list of https URLs to listen on for Etcd Replicators, e.g. `https://0.0.0.0:2379` to listen on port 2739 across all ipv4 interfaces |

Author: ```suggestion
| `etcd-listen-client-urls`    | List of https URLs to listen on for etcd replicators (e.g. `https://0.0.0.0:2379` to listen on port 2739 across all ipv4 interfaces) |
```

> _NOTE: You *must* provide non-default values for `etcd-advertise-client-urls` and `etcd-listen-client-urls` backend parameters, as the default values are not suitable for use under federation._

Author: ```suggestion
_**NOTE**: You *must* provide non-default values for the `etcd-advertise-client-urls` and `etcd-listen-client-urls` backend parameters. The default values are not suitable for use under federation._
```

### Step 2 Configure shared token signing keys

> Whether federated or stand-alone, Sensu backends issue JSON web tokens (JWTs) to users upon successful authentication. These tokens include a payload which describes the username and group affiliations, used to determine permissions based on configured [RBAC policy][10].

Author: ```suggestion
Whether federated or standalone, Sensu backends issue JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) to users upon successful authentication. These tokens include a payload that describes the username and group affiliations. The payload is used to determine permissions based on the configured [RBAC policy][10].
```

> In a federation of Sensu backends, each backend needs to have the same public/private key pair. These asymmetric keys are used to crypotgraphically vouch for the user's identity in the JWT payload. This use of shared JWT keys enables clusters to grant users access to Sensu resources according to their local policies but without requiring User resources to be present uniformly across all clusters in the federation.

Author: ```suggestion
In a federation of Sensu backends, each backend needs to have the same public/private key pair. These asymmetric keys are used to crypotgraphically vouch for the user's identity in the JWT payload. This use of shared JWT keys enables clusters to grant users access to Sensu resources according to their local policies but without requiring user resources to be present uniformly across all clusters in the federation.
```

> By default a Sensu backend automatically generates an asymmetric key pair for signing JWTs and stores it in the etcd database. When configuring federation, you need to generate keys as files on disk so they can be copied to all backends in the federation.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, a Sensu backend automatically generates an asymmetric key pair for signing JWTs and stores it in the etcd database. When configuring federation, you need to generate keys as files on disk so they can be copied to all backends in the federation.
```

> Use use the `openssl` command line tool to generate a P-256 Elliptic Curve private key:

Author: ```suggestion
Use use the `openssl` command line tool to generate a P-256 elliptic curve private key:
```

> ```shell

Author: ```suggestion
{{< highlight shell >}}
```

openssl ecparam -genkey -name prime256v1 -noout -out jwt_private.pem

> ```

Author: ```suggestion
{{< /highlight >}}
```

Then generate a public key from the private key:

> ```shell

Author: ```suggestion
{{< highlight shell >}}
```

openssl ec -in jwt_private.pem -pubout -out jwt_public.pem

> ```

Author: ```suggestion
{{< /highlight >}}
```

> For this guide, we'll put JWT keys into `/etc/sensu/certs` and use the [`jwt-private-key-file` and `jwt-public-key-file` attributes][4] in `/etc/sensu/backend.yml` to specify the paths to these JWT keys:

Author: ```suggestion
For this example, you'll put JWT keys into `/etc/sensu/certs` and use the [`jwt-private-key-file` and `jwt-public-key-file` attributes][4] in `/etc/sensu/backend.yml` to specify the paths to these JWT keys:
```

{{< highlight yml >}}
jwt-private-key-file: /etc/sensu/certs/jwt_private.pem
jwt-public-key-file: /etc/sensu/certs/jwt_public.pem
{{< /highlight >}}

> After updating the backend configuration in each cluster, restart `sensu-backend` for those settings to take effect.

Author: ```suggestion
After updating the backend configuration in each cluster, restart `sensu-backend` so that your settings take effect:
{{< highlight shell >}}
sensu-backend start
{{< /highlight >}}
```

### Step 3 Add a cluster role binding and user

> To prove out our configuration, we'll provision a User and a ClusterRoleBinding in the `gateway` cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
To test your configuration, provision a User and a ClusterRoleBinding in the `gateway` cluster.
```

> First, confirm that sensuctl is configured to communicate with the `gateway` cluster using `sensuctl config view` to see the active configuration.

Author: I think it would be good to include an example that shows what the response should look like if sensuctl is configured correctly here.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl config view

{this would be the example that shows the response if correctly configured}
{{< /highlight >}}

> Secondly, create a `federation-viewer` user:

Author: ```suggestion
Second, create a `federation-viewer` user:
```

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl user create federation-viewer --interactive
{{< /highlight >}}

> When prompted, enter a password for the `federation-viewer` user, and press enter when prompted for groups. Note this password for later as we'll use it to login to the web UI once we've configured RBAC policy replication and registered clusters into our federation.

Author: ```suggestion
When prompted, enter a password for the `federation-viewer` user. When prompted for groups, press enter. Note the `federation-viewer` password you entered &mdash; you'll use it to log in to the web UI after you configure RBAC policy replication and registered clusters into your federation.
```

Next, grant the `federation-viewer` user read-only access through a cluster role binding for the built-in `view` cluster role:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl cluster-role-binding create federation-viewer-readonly --cluster-role=view --user=federation-viewer
{{< /highlight >}}

> Next, you'll configure Etcd Replicators to copy the cluster role bindings and other RBAC policies we've created in the `gateway` cluster to the `alpha` and `beta` clusters.

Author: ```suggestion
In step 4, you'll configure etcd replicators to copy the cluster role bindings and other RBAC policies you created in the `gateway` cluster to the `alpha` and `beta` clusters.
```

> ### Step 4 Create Etcd Replicators

Author: ```suggestion
### Step 4 Create etcd replicators
```

Etcd replicators use the [etcd make-mirror utility][12] for one-way replication of Sensu [RBAC policy resources][10].

> In practice this allows you to centrally define RBAC policy on the `gateway` cluster and replicate those resources to other clusters in the federation, ensuring consistent permissions for Sensu users across multiple clusters via the `gateway` web UI.

Author: ```suggestion
This allows you to centrally define RBAC policy on the `gateway` cluster and replicate those resources to other clusters in the federation, ensuring consistent permissions for Sensu users across multiple clusters via the `gateway` web UI.
```

> To get started, configure an Etcd Replicator per-cluster for each of those RBAC policy types, across all namespaces, for each backend in the federation. For example, these Etcd Replicator resources will replicate ClusterRoleBinding resources from `gateway` cluster to two target clusters:

Author: ```suggestion
To get started, configure one etcd replicator per cluster for each of those RBAC policy types, across all namespaces, for each backend in the federation. For example, these etcd replicator resources will replicate ClusterRoleBinding resources from  the`gateway` cluster to two target clusters:
```

    "cert": "/etc/sensu/certs/cert.pem",
    "key": "/etc/sensu/certs/key.pem",
    "url": "https://sensu.alpha.example.com:2379",
    "api_version": "core/v2",
    "resource": "ClusterRoleBinding",
    "replication_interval_seconds": 30
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
api_version: federation/v1
type: EtcdReplicator
metadata:
  name: BetaClusterRoleBindings
spec:
  ca_cert: "/etc/sensu/certs/ca.pem"
  cert: "/etc/sensu/certs/cert.pem"
  key: "/etc/sensu/certs/key.pem"
  url: https://sensu.beta.example.com:2379
  api_version: core/v2
  resource: ClusterRoleBinding
  replication_interval_seconds: 30
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "api_version": "federation/v1",
  "type": "EtcdReplicator",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "BetaClusterRoleBindings"
  },
  "spec": {
    "ca_cert": "/etc/sensu/certs/ca.pem",
    "cert": "/etc/sensu/certs/cert.pem",
    "key": "/etc/sensu/certs/key.pem",
    "url": "https://sensu.beta.example.com:2379",
    "api_version": "core/v2",
    "resource": "ClusterRoleBinding",
    "replication_interval_seconds": 30
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

> To configure this EtcdReplicator on our `gateway` cluster, first use `sensuctl config view` to verify that `sensuctl` is configured to talk to a `gateway` cluster API. Reconfigure `sensuctl` as necessary.

Author: ```suggestion
To configure this etcd replicator on your `gateway` cluster, use `sensuctl config view` to verify that `sensuctl` is configured to talk to a `gateway` cluster API. Reconfigure `sensuctl` if needed.
```

> With the above EtcdReplicator definition written to disk as `AllClusterRoleBindings.yml`, use `cat AllClusterRoleBindings.yml | sensuctl create`  to create the EtdReplicator on the `gateway` cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
With the EtcdReplicator definition written to disk as `AllClusterRoleBindings.yml`, use `cat AllClusterRoleBindings.yml | sensuctl create`  to create the EtdReplicator on the `gateway` cluster.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Write these EtcdReplicator definitions written to disk and use `sensuctl create -f` to apply them to the `gateway` cluster.
```

> Our [etcd-replicators reference][2] includes [examples][9] for `Role`, `RoleBinding`, `ClusterRole`, and `ClusterRoleBinding` resources. For a consistent experience, repeat the above example for `Role`, `RoleBinding` and `ClusterRole` resource types.

Author: ```suggestion
For a consistent experience, repeat the `ClusterRoleBinding` example in this guide for `Role`, `RoleBinding` and `ClusterRole` resource types. The [etcd replicators reference][2] includes [examples][9] you can follow for `Role`, `RoleBinding`, `ClusterRole`, and `ClusterRoleBinding` resources.
```

> You can verify that the EtcdReplicator resource is working as expected by reconfiguring `sensuctl` to communicate with the `alpha` and `beta` clusters and issuing the `sensuctl cluster-role-binding list` command. You should see 

Author: ```suggestion
To verify that the EtcdReplicator resource is working as expected, reconfigure `sensuctl` to communicate with the `alpha` and `beta` clusters and issue the `sensuctl cluster-role-binding list` command. You should see 
```

Author: I think there's an incomplete thought here at the end -- "You should see..."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To verify that the EtcdReplicator resource is working as expected, reconfigure `sensuctl` to communicate with the `alpha` and then `beta` clusters, issuing the `sensuctl cluster-role-binding list` command for each. You should see the `federation-viewer-readonly` binding created in step 3 listed in the output from each cluster:

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl cluster-role-binding info federation-viewer-readonly
=== federation-viewer-readonly
Name:         federation-viewer-readonly
Cluster Role: view
Subjects:     
  Users:      federation-viewer
{{< /highlight >}}
```

### Step 5 Register clusters

> In order to become visible in the web UI, a cluster must be registered. Each registered cluster must have a name and a list of one or more cluster member URLs corresponding to the backend REST API.

Author: ```suggestion
Clusters must be registered to become visible in the web UI. Each registered cluster must have a name and a list of one or more cluster member URLs corresponding to the backend REST API.
```

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
api_version: federation/v1
type: Cluster
metadata:
  name: alpha
spec:
  api_urls:
  - https://sensu.alpha.example.com:8080
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "api_version": "federation/v1",
  "type": "Cluster",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "alpha"
  },
  "spec": {
    "api-urls": [
      "https://sensu.alpha.example.com:8080"
    ]
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

#### Register additional clusters

With `sensuctl` configured for `gateway` cluster, run `sensuctl create` on the yaml or JSON below to register an additional cluster and define the name as `beta`:

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
api_version: federation/v1
type: Cluster
metadata:
  name: beta
spec:
  api_urls:
  - https://sensu.beta.example.com:8080
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "api_version": "federation/v1",
  "type": "Cluster",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "beta"
  },
  "spec": {
    "api-urls": [
      "https://sensu.alpha.example.com:8080"
    ]
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

> _NOTE: When logging into the `gateway` cluster web UI, any namespaces, entities, events and other resources specific to that cluster will be labled as `local-cluster`._

Author: ```suggestion
_**NOTE**: When logging into the `gateway` cluster web UI, any namespaces, entities, events, and other resources specific to that cluster will be labeled as `local-cluster`._
```

### Step 6 Get a unified view of all your clusters in the web UI

> After you create clusters using the federation API, you can log in to the `gateway` Sensu web UI to view them as either the `federation-viewer` user. Switching between namespaces across federated clusters is accomplished using namespace switcher, as shown in the animation below:

Author: ```suggestion
After you create clusters using the federation API, you can log in to the `gateway` Sensu web UI to view them as the `federation-viewer` user. Use the namespace switcher to change between namespaces across federated clusters:
```

> <img alt="animated demonstration of federated views in Sensu Web UI" title="Cross-cluster visibility in the Sensu Web UI" src="/images/federation-switcher-animated.gif" width="800 px">

Author: ```suggestion
<img alt="Animated demonstration of federated views in Sensu Web UI" title="Cross-cluster visibility in the Sensu web UI" src="/images/federation-switcher-animated.gif" width="800 px">
```

> As the `federation-viewer` user is granted only permissions provided by the built-in `view` role, this user should be able to view all resources across all clusters, but not make any changes. Provided you've not changed the permissions of the default `admin` user, that user should be able to view, create, delete and update resources across all clusters as well.

Author: ```suggestion
Because the `federation-viewer` user is granted only permissions provided by the built-in `view` role, this user should be able to view all resources across all clusters but should not be able to make any changes. If you haven't changed the permissions of the default `admin` user, that user should be able to view, create, delete, and update resources across all clusters.
```

> ### Next steps

Author: ```suggestion
## Next steps
```

Learn more about configuring RBAC policies in our [RBAC reference documentation][10].

[1]: ../../api/federation/#the-clusters-endpoint

> [2]: ../../reference/etcdreplicators

Author: ```suggestion
[2]: ../../reference/etcdreplicators/
```

> [3]: ../use-apikey-feature

Author: ```suggestion
[3]: ../use-apikey-feature/
```

[4]: ../../reference/backend#jwt-attributes
[5]: ../../sensuctl/reference#creating-resources
[6]: ../../sensuctl/reference#updating-resources
[7]: ../../sensuctl/reference#deleting-resources

> [8]: ../../getting-started/enterprise

Author: ```suggestion
[8]: ../../getting-started/enterprise/
```

[9]: ../../reference/etcdreplicators#example-etcd-replicators-resources

> [10]: ../../reference/rbac

Author: ```suggestion
[10]: ../../reference/rbac/
```

[11]: ../../api/federation#clusters-get
[12]: https://github.com/etcd-io/etcd/blob/master/etcdctl/README.md#make-mirror-options-destination

> [13]: ../../guides/securing-sensu/#creating-self-signed-certificates

Author: ```suggestion
[13]: ../../guides/securing-sensu/#creating-self-signed-certificates
[14]: #register-a-single-cluster
```

## Configure federation

Complete federation of multiple Sensu instances relies on a combination of features:

| Feature                             | Purpose in federation |
|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| JSON Web Token (JWT) authentication       | Cross-cluster token authentication using asymmetric key encryption |
| etcd replicators                    | Replicate RBAC policy across clusters and namespaces       |
| Federation Gateway and APIs         | Configure federation access for cross-cluster visibility in web UI |

The following steps are required to configure these features for unified visibility in a single web UI. Our examples assume that we wish to federate three named Sensu clusters:

* `gateway`
* `alpha`
* `beta`

In this example, the `gateway` cluster will be the entry point for operators to manage Sensu resources in the `alpha` and `beta` clusters.

### Step 1 Configure backends for TLS

> Because federation depends on communication with multiple disparate clusters, working TLS is required for successful configuration. This guide assumes that you have provided each backend member with TLS credentials (key and certificate), as well as the CA certificate chain required for one Sensu backend to validate the certificates presented by other backends. If you don't have existing infrastructure for issuing certificates, see [Securing Sensu][13] for our recommended self-signed certificate issuance process.

Author: Maybe we should list out exactly what we're assuming they will have set up here. It seems difficult to pick out of a paragraph. For example:
..
Because federation depends on communication with multiple disparate clusters, working TLS is required for successful configuration. To continue with this guide, make sure you have this configuration in place:

- TLS credentials (key and certificate) provided for each backend member
- The CA certificate chain required for one Sensu backend to validate the certificates presented by other backends

If you don't have existing infrastructure for issuing certificates, see [Securing Sensu][13] for our recommended self-signed certificate issuance process.
..
It also sounds like we're suggesting they need to set up TLS for more than 1 backend, but we don't say how many backends they will need to follow this guide.

Reviewer 2: Please review latest commits to this section

Author: I added a few very minor things (missing periods and the like). Updates are 👍 !

In a federation of Sensu backends, each backend needs to have the same public/private key pair. These asymmetric keys are used to crypotgraphically vouch for the user's identity in the JWT payload. This use of shared JWT keys enables clusters to grant users access to Sensu resources according to their local policies but without requiring user resources to be present uniformly across all clusters in the federation.

By default, a Sensu backend automatically generates an asymmetric key pair for signing JWTs and stores it in the etcd database. When configuring federation, you need to generate keys as files on disk so they can be copied to all backends in the federation.

Use use the `openssl` command line tool to generate a P-256 elliptic curve private key:

{{< highlight shell >}}
openssl ecparam -genkey -name prime256v1 -noout -out jwt_private.pem
{{< /highlight >}}

Then generate a public key from the private key:

{{< highlight shell >}}
openssl ec -in jwt_private.pem -pubout -out jwt_public.pem
{{< /highlight >}}

> For this example, you'll put JWT keys into `/etc/sensu/certs` and use the [`jwt-private-key-file` and `jwt-public-key-file` attributes][4] in `/etc/sensu/backend.yml` to specify the paths to these JWT keys:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this example, you'll put JWT keys into `/etc/sensu/certs` on each cluster backend, and use the [`jwt-private-key-file` and `jwt-public-key-file` attributes][4] in `/etc/sensu/backend.yml` to specify the paths to these JWT keys:
```

{{< highlight yml >}}
jwt-private-key-file: /etc/sensu/certs/jwt_private.pem
jwt-public-key-file: /etc/sensu/certs/jwt_public.pem
{{< /highlight >}}

After updating the backend configuration in each cluster, restart `sensu-backend` so that your settings take effect:
{{< highlight shell >}}
sensu-backend start
{{< /highlight >}}

### Step 3 Add a cluster role binding and user

To test your configuration, provision a User and a ClusterRoleBinding in the `gateway` cluster.

> First, confirm that sensuctl is configured to communicate with the `gateway` cluster using `sensuctl config view` to see the active configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, confirm that sensuctl is configured to communicate with the `gateway` cluster using `sensuctl config view` to see the active configuration:

{{< highlight shell >}}
=== Active Configuration
API URL:   https://sensu.gateway.example.com:8080
Namespace: default
Format:    tabular
Username:  admin
{{ < /highlight >}}
```

---
title: "Multi-cluster visibility with federation"
linkTitle: "Reaching Multi-cluster Visibility"

> description: "In this guide, you'll learn how federate Sensu clusters and use a single web UI to access resources across those disparate clusters."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "With Sensu's federation capabilities, you can access and manage resources across multiple clusters via the web UI and mirror changes in one cluster to follower clusters. In this guide, you'll learn how federate Sensu clusters."
```

weight: 400
version: "5.15"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: False
menu: 
  sensu-go-5.15:
    parent: guides
---

- [What you can do with federation](#what-you-can-do-with-federation)
- [Configure federation](#configure-federation)
  - [Step 1 Configure backends for TLS](#step-1-configure-backends-for-tls)
  - [Step 2 Configure shared token signing keys](#step-2-configure-shared-token-signing-keys)
  - [Step 3 Add a cluster role binding and user](#step-3-add-a-cluster-role-binding-and-user)
  - [Step 4 Create etcd replicators](#step-4-create-etcd-replicators)

>   - [Step 5 Register clusters](#step-5-register-clusters)

Author: ```suggestion
  - [Step 5 Register clusters](#step-5-register-clusters): [Register a single cluster](#register-a-single-cluster) | [Register additional clusters](#register-additional-clusters)
```

Author: Not sure how this will look....

>     - [Register a single cluster](#register-a-single-cluster)

Author: ```suggestion
```

>     - [Register additional clusters](#register-additional-clusters)

Reviewer 3: For some reason these two aren't being indented, or maybe that's the intention. I took a look and I don't see why they wouldn't be, but thought I'd point it out.

Author: Hmmmm maybe we can only use 2 levels even in these TOCs? I can't seem to find another doc that has 3 levels.

Reviewer 2: > Hmmmm maybe we can only use 2 levels even in these TOCs? I can't seem to find another doc that has 3 levels.

I think this is a "known" limitation of Hugo, or our Hugo theme, which we have forgotten about 😅

Author: Yeah, I realized we have dealt with this in other docs with pipes. I think I added that as a suggested change in another comment

>     - [Register additional clusters](#register-additional-clusters)

Author: ```suggestion
```

This prerequisite extends to configuring the following Sensu backend etcd parameters:

| Backend property             | Note |
|------------------------------|------|
| `etcd-cert-file`             | Path to certificate used for TLS on etcd client/peer communications.  |
| `etcd-key-file`              | Path to key corresponding with `etcd-cert-file` certificate. |
| `etcd-trusted-ca-file`       | Path to CA certificate chain file. This CA certificate chain must be usable to validate certificates for all backends in the federation. |
| `etcd-client-cert-auth`      | Enforces certificate validation to authenticate etcd replicator connections. We recommend setting to `true` |

> | `etcd-advertise-client-urls` | List of https URLs to advertise for etcd replicators, accessible by other backends in the federation (e.g. `https://sensu.beta.example.com:2378`) |

Reviewer 3: Should the port here be `2379`? Using `2378` didn't work as that is not a port used by Sensu Go.

It does work with `2379`, but I wasn't sure if using the host and all interfaces for both `etcd-advertise-client-urls` and `etcd-listen-client-urls` would cause issues. Or if them being websockets(?) it is ok.

> | `etcd-advertise-client-urls` | List of https URLs to advertise for etcd replicators, accessible by other backends in the federation (e.g. `https://sensu.beta.example.com:2378`) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `etcd-advertise-client-urls` | List of https URLs to advertise for etcd replicators, accessible by other backends in the federation (e.g. `https://sensu.beta.example.com:2379`) |
```

Just a typo 😅

Upon completion of these steps, you'll be able to browse events, entities, checks and other resources in the `gateway`, `alpha` and `beta` clusters from the `gateway` cluster web UI.

This diagram depicts the federation relationship documented in this guide:

<!-- Federation diagram source: https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/edit/1b676df9-534e-40e4-9881-6313013ecd28/n~8S.VTyl5JQ -->
<a href="/images/federation-guide-diagram.png"><img alt="Diagram depicting this guide's example federation architecture" src="/images/federation-guide-diagram.png" width="800 px"></a>

### Step 1 Configure backends for TLS

Because federation depends on communication with multiple disparate clusters, working TLS is required for successful federated operation.

To ensure that cluster members can validate one another, certificates for each cluster member should include the IP addresses and/or hostnames specified in the values of sensu-backend `etcd-advertise-client-urls`, `etcd-advertise-peer-urls`, and `etcd-initial-advertise-peer-urls` parameters.
In addition to the certificate's [Common Name (CN)][15], [Subject Alternative Names (SANs)][16] are also honored for validation.

> To continue with this guide, make sure you have required TLS credentials in place:

Author: ```suggestion
To continue with this guide, make sure you have the required TLS credentials in place:
```

* PEM-formatted X.509 certificate and corresponding private key copied to each cluster member
* Corresponding CA certificate chain copied to each cluster member

> If you don't have existing infrastructure for issuing certificates, see [Securing Sensu][13] for our recommended self-signed certificate issuance process.

Author: ```suggestion
If you don't have existing infrastructure for issuing certificates, see [Secure Sensu][13] for our recommended self-signed certificate issuance process.
```

This prerequisite extends to configuring the following Sensu backend etcd parameters:

| Backend property             | Note |
|------------------------------|------|
| `etcd-cert-file`             | Path to certificate used for TLS on etcd client/peer communications.  |
| `etcd-key-file`              | Path to key corresponding with `etcd-cert-file` certificate. |
| `etcd-trusted-ca-file`       | Path to CA certificate chain file. This CA certificate chain must be usable to validate certificates for all backends in the federation. |

> | `etcd-client-cert-auth`      | Enforces certificate validation to authenticate etcd replicator connections. We recommend setting to `true` |

Author: ```suggestion
| `etcd-client-cert-auth`      | Enforces certificate validation to authenticate etcd replicator connections. We recommend setting to `true`. |
```

> | `etcd-advertise-client-urls` | List of https URLs to advertise for etcd replicators, accessible by other backends in the federation (e.g. `https://sensu.beta.example.com:2379`) |

Author: ```suggestion
| `etcd-advertise-client-urls` | List of https URLs to advertise for etcd replicators, accessible by other backends in the federation (e.g. `https://sensu.beta.example.com:2379`). |
```

> | `etcd-listen-client-urls`    | List of https URLs to listen on for etcd replicators (e.g. `https://0.0.0.0:2379` to listen on port 2739 across all ipv4 interfaces) |

Author: ```suggestion
| `etcd-listen-client-urls`    | List of https URLs to listen on for etcd replicators (e.g. `https://0.0.0.0:2379` to listen on port 2739 across all ipv4 interfaces). |
```
